Blogpost for pagination in hybrid query (#3739)
opensearch-project/project-website: _posts/2025-04-19-navigating-pagination-with-hybrid-query.md

---
layout: post
title:  "Navigating pagination in hybrid queries with the pagination_depth parameter"
authors:
- varunudr
- minalsha
- seanzheng
- kolchfa
date: 2025-04-16
categories:
  - technical-posts
meta_keywords: hybrid queries, semantic search, lexical search, search relevance, query execution workflow, OpenSearch hybrid search, Pagination

> meta_description: Explore how pagination works in hybrid queries by using pagination depth to efficiently paginate over the result set.

Reviewer: Please update the meta with the following: 

_meta_keywords:_ hybrid query, OpenSearch, understanding pagination, pagination depth, hybrid search, search performance, best practices for using pagination_depth, query optimization, search relevance

_meta_description:_ Discover how to optimize OpenSearch hybrid queries using the pagination_depth parameter. Learn implementation guidelines and performance best practices for efficient search result navigation in OpenSearch 2.19.

Reviewer 2: @pajuric Meta and link added.

> meta_description: Explore how pagination works in hybrid queries by using pagination depth to efficiently paginate over the result set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
meta_description: Discover how to optimize OpenSearch hybrid queries using the pagination_depth parameter. Learn implementation guidelines and performance best practices for efficient search result navigation in OpenSearch 2.19.
```

---

OpenSearch 2.10 introduced hybrid queries, which have become a popular choice for improving semantic search relevance. By combining full-text lexical search with semantic search, hybrid queries deliver better results than either method alone across various applications, including e-commerce, document search, log analytics, and data exploration. Our [earlier blog post](https://opensearch.org/blog/hybrid-search/) introduced this feature and presented quality and performance results.

> OpenSearch continues to enhance its hybrid query capabilities with features like post-filters, aggregations, query parallelization, the `explain` parameter, and sorting. Building on this momentum, OpenSearch 2.19 introduced pagination support through the new `pagination_depth` parameter. When used with traditional `from` and `size` parameters, this enhancement helps you efficiently navigate through hybrid query result sets. For example, you can now paginate through thousands of search results one page at a time.

Reviewer: Add a link to OpenSearch 2.19 here: https://opensearch.org/blog/explore-opensearch-2-19/

> OpenSearch continues to enhance its hybrid query capabilities with features like post-filters, aggregations, query parallelization, the `explain` parameter, and sorting. Building on this momentum, OpenSearch 2.19 introduced pagination support through the new `pagination_depth` parameter. When used with traditional `from` and `size` parameters, this enhancement helps you efficiently navigate through hybrid query result sets. For example, you can now paginate through thousands of search results one page at a time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenSearch continues to enhance its hybrid query capabilities with features like post-filters, aggregations, query parallelization, the `explain` parameter, and sorting. Building on this momentum, [OpenSearch 2.19](https://opensearch.org/blog/explore-opensearch-2-19/) introduced pagination support through the new `pagination_depth` parameter. When used with traditional `from` and `size` parameters, this enhancement helps you efficiently navigate through hybrid query result sets. For example, you can now paginate through thousands of search results one page at a time.
```

Our benchmarking shows no significant performance impact when fetching the second page, even with a `pagination_depth` of 10,000. However, both latency and CPU utilization increase with pagination depth. To optimize performance, consider the following best practices.

### Optimize pagination depth based on data distribution

The efficiency of pagination depends on how evenly your data is distributed across shards. You can check this distribution using the `_cat/shards` API. If the documents are equally distributed among shards, then even a smaller `pagination_depth` can provide more hybridized search results per subquery.

For example:
* With `pagination_depth = 20` across 3 shards, you can hybridize up to 60 results per subquery.
* This assumes that each shard contains at least 20 results per subquery (thus, the data is evenly distributed).
* If there are no duplicate entries in the subqueries, you can paginate through up to 120 hybridized search results.

### Manage uneven data distribution

Custom routing can lead to uneven data distribution across shards, resulting in some shards returning zero results, which reduces the total number of hybridized results.

> Additionally, some shards may contain all the relevant results. If a shard contains more than 20 results per subquery, it can still return only 20 results (based on `pagination_depth`). As a result, the coordinator node will receive fewer results for hybridization, reducing the final search result size.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, some shards may contain all the relevant results because of custom routing. Continuing the earlier example, if a shard contains more than 20 results per subquery, it can still return only 20 results (based on `pagination_depth`). As a result, the coordinator node will receive fewer results for hybridization, reducing the final search result size.
```

![Performance-graph-of-hybrid-query-with-pagination](/assets/media/blog-images/2025-04-19-navigating-pagination-with-hybrid-query/Performance-graph-of-hybrid-query-with-pagination.png){:class="img-centered" width="500px"}

The following graph presents the results of running a metric aggregation with a hybrid query containing three BM25 subqueries: term, range, and date.

![metric-aggregation-performance-graph](/assets/media/blog-images/2025-04-19-navigating-pagination-with-hybrid-query/metric-aggregation-performance-graph.png){:class="img-centered" width="500px"}

The following graph presents the CPU utilization results.

![cpu-utilization](/assets/media/blog-images/2025-04-19-navigating-pagination-with-hybrid-query/cpu-utilization.png){:class="img-centered" width="500px"}

### Performance summary

The results show gradual, predictable performance changes:
- There are no significant latency or CPU utilization spikes.
- Latency metrics (p50, p90, p99, p100) and CPU utilization increase steadily with increasing pagination depth.

## Best practices for using pagination_depth

> Our benchmarking shows no significant performance impact when fetching the second page, even with a `pagination_depth` of 10,000. However, both latency and CPU utilization increase with pagination depth. To optimize performance, consider the following recommendations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Our benchmarking shows no significant performance impact when fetching the second page, even with a `pagination_depth` of 10,000. However, both latency and CPU utilization increase with pagination depth. To optimize performance, consider the following best practices.
```

### Optimize pagination depth based on data distribution

The efficiency of pagination depends on how evenly your data is distributed across shards. You can check this distribution using the `_cat/shards` API. If the documents are equally distributed among shards, then even a smaller `pagination_depth` can provide more hybridized search results per subquery.

For example:
* With `pagination_depth = 20` across 3 shards, you can hybridize up to 60 results per subquery.
* This assumes that each shard contains at least 20 results per subquery (thus, the data is evenly distributed).
* If there are no duplicate entries in the subqueries, you can paginate through up to 120 hybridized search results.

### Manage uneven data distribution

> Custom routing can lead to uneven data distribution across shards, resulting in some shards returning zero results, which reduces the total number of hybridized results.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Custom routing can lead to uneven data distribution across shards, resulting in some shards returning zero results, which reduces the total number of hybridized results. Conversely, some shards may contain all the relevant results. If a shard contains more than 20 results per subquery, it can still return only 20 results (based on `pagination_depth`). As a result, the coordinator node will receive fewer results for hybridization, reducing the final search result size.
```

Author: I would rather provide it as an example of "Custom routing can lead to uneven data distribution across shards, resulting in some shards returning zero results, which reduces the total number of hybridized results." paragraph. For example some shards may contain all the relevant results due to custom routing. If ..

Reviewer 3: Done

> ### Some shards may contain all the relevant results

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> If a shard contains more than 20 results per subquery, it can still return only 20 results (based on `pagination_depth`). As a result, the coordinator node will receive fewer results for hybridization, reducing the final search result size.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

---
layout: post
title:  "Navigating pagination in hybrid queries with the pagination_depth parameter"
authors:
- varunudr
- minalsha

> - kolchfa

Author: Can we add xiaoyu also as authors?

    ![more-weightage](/assets/media/blog-images/2025-04-19-navigating-pagination-with-hybrid-query/more-weightage.png){:class="img-centered"}

1. **Duplicate result effect**:
    - Newly retrieved results can become duplicates, meaning they exist in both subquery results.
    - After the score combination process, the combined score of a duplicate entry increases, making it more relevant.
    - With equal subquery weights, duplicate results rank higher than expected, appearing earlier in search results.

    In the following diagram, documents with IDs 0 and 12 are duplicate results appearing in both match and k-NN subqueries. Because duplicate documents typically receive higher hybrid scores than single-occurrence documents, they appear higher in the results, disrupting the expected pagination order.

    ![duplicate-results](/assets/media/blog-images/2025-04-19-navigating-pagination-with-hybrid-query/duplicate-results.png){:class="img-centered"}

### Addressing the ground truth problem

> The `pagination_depth` parameter solves these issues by ensuring a consistent number of results per shard. This removes the dependency on from and size during result retrieval, ensuring that the same set of search results every time. The `from` and `size` parameters are applied after hybrid techniques to trim the results and determine how many should be displayed on each page.

Author: ```suggestion
The `pagination_depth` parameter solves these issues by ensuring a consistent number of results per shard. This removes the dependency on from and size during result retrieval, ensuring that the same set of search results every time. The `from` and `size` parameters are applied after hybrid techniques to trim the results and determine how many results should be displayed on each page.
```

---
layout: post
title:  "Navigating pagination in hybrid queries with the pagination_depth parameter"
authors:
- varunudr
- minalsha
- seanzheng
- kolchfa
date: 2025-04-16
categories:
  - technical-posts
meta_keywords: hybrid queries, semantic search, lexical search, search relevance, query execution workflow, OpenSearch hybrid search, Pagination
meta_description: Explore how pagination works in hybrid queries by using pagination depth to efficiently paginate over the result set.
---

OpenSearch 2.10 introduced hybrid query, which has become a popular choice for improving semantic search relevance. By combining full-text lexical search with semantic search, hybrid queries deliver better results than either method alone across various applications, including e-commerce, document search, log analytics, and data exploration. Our [earlier blog](https://opensearch.org/blog/hybrid-search/) introduced this feature and presented quality and performance results.

> OpenSearch continues to enhance its hybrid query capabilities with features like post-filters, aggregations, query parallelization, explain, and sorting. Building on this momentum, OpenSearch 2.19 introduces pagination support through the new 'pagination_depth' parameter. When used with traditional from and size parameters, this enhancement helps you efficiently navigate through hybrid query result sets. For example, you can now paginate through thousands of search results one page at a time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
OpenSearch continues to enhance its hybrid query capabilities with features like post-filters, aggregations, query parallelization, the `explain` parameter, and sorting. Building on this momentum, OpenSearch 2.19 introduced pagination support through the new `pagination_depth` parameter. When used with traditional `from` and `size` parameters, this enhancement helps you efficiently navigate through hybrid query result sets. For example, you can now paginate through thousands of search results one page at a time.
```

In this blog post, we'll explain pagination and the `pagination_depth` parameter. We'll explore why pagination depth is necessary for hybrid queries, show you how to use this feature, and share benchmarking results.

## Understanding pagination

OpenSearch uses pagination to divide large result sets into manageable pages. Each page contains the number of search results specified by the size parameter in your search request. OpenSearch supports four pagination techniques:
- `from` and `size` parameters
- Scroll search operation
- `search_after` parameter
- Point in Time with `search_after`

For more information about these techniques, see the [OpenSearch documentation](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/searching-data/paginate/).

> This blog focuses on using the `from` and `size` parameters with the new `pagination_depth` parameter in hybrid queries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This blog post focuses on using the `from` and `size` parameters with the new `pagination_depth` parameter in hybrid queries.
```

## How pagination_depth works

The `pagination_depth` parameter specifies the maximum number of search results to retrieve from each shard for every subquery. This gives you precise control over how many results to hybridize for each subquery.

The following figure presents an index with three shards. The example hybrid query search request includes two subqueries (a match query and a k-NN query), with `pagination_depth = 20`, `size = 10`, and `from = 5`.

![pagination-depth](/assets/media/blog-images/2025-04-19-navigating-pagination-with-hybrid-query/pagination-depth.png){:class="img-centered"}

Here's how this example works:

> 1. With `pagination_depth` set to 20, each shard retrieves up to 20 results for both the match query and the k-NN query (this example assumes that each shard contains at least 20 results per query.)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. With `pagination_depth` set to 20, each shard retrieves up to 20 results for both the match query and the k-NN query (this example assumes that each shard contains at least 20 results per query).
```

2. The coordinator node receives 120 total results (60 for the match query and 60 for the k-NN query) and processes them using hybrid search techniques, including normalization and score combination.
3. When applying hybrid search techniques, any duplicate results appearing in both subqueries are merged into a single result.

> 4. The final results are trimmed according to top 10 results ( because of `size = 10`), starting from the 5th entry (because of `from = 5`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. The final results are trimmed according to the top 10 results (because of `size = 10`), starting from the fifth entry (because of `from = 5`).
```

This process ensures that hybrid search efficiently merges and ranks results from multiple subqueries while respecting pagination constraints.

## Why pagination_depth matters

> Traditional queries (like match and term) use a simple `from` + `size` formula to determine the maximum number of search results to retrieve from each shard. However, applying this same formula to hybrid search creates challenges that affect result accuracy, or _ground truth_. Ground truth refers to information from direct observation rather than inference; in practice, it represents the best available test or benchmark under reasonable conditions. This serves as a foundation for validating data accuracy, whether through customer feedback, human labels, or the most reliable available testing methods even when classification may be imperfect.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Traditional queries (like match and term) use a simple `from` + `size` formula to determine the maximum number of search results to retrieve from each shard. However, applying this same formula to hybrid search creates challenges that affect result accuracy, or _ground truth_. Ground truth refers to information gained from direct observation rather than inference; in practice, it represents the best available test or benchmark under reasonable conditions. This serves as a foundation for validating data accuracy, whether through customer feedback, human labels, or the most reliable available testing methods, even when classification may be imperfect.
```

> Let's examine an example. Consider a hybrid query search request with these parameters:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Let's look at an example. Consider a hybrid query search request with these parameters:
```

- `from = 0` 
- `size = 3`

> The request contains two subqueries under the hybrid clause: a match query and a k-NN query. The normalization processor is configured to assign a greater weight to the match query (0.7) higher than the k-NN query (0.3), as shown in the following diagram.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The request contains two subqueries under the hybrid clause: a match query and a k-NN query. The normalization processor is configured to assign a greater weight to the match query (0.7) than the k-NN query (0.3), as shown in the following diagram.
```

![higher-weightage](/assets/media/blog-images/2025-04-19-navigating-pagination-with-hybrid-query/higher-weightage.png){:class="img-centered"}

### How the from + size formula affects ground truth

> Modifying `from` or ``size`` values increases the number of results retrieved for each subquery from a shard. However, these new results don't simply append to the last page. They can appear earlier in the ranked list, changing the ground truth you're trying to paginate through. This happens in the following two main scenarios:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Modifying the `from` or `size` values increases the number of results retrieved for each subquery from a shard. However, these new results don't simply append to the last page. They can appear earlier in the ranked list, changing the ground truth you're trying to paginate through. This happens in the following two main scenarios:
```

1. **Higher-weighted subquery effect**:
    - New results from a higher-weighted subquery may rank higher after score combination.
    - As a result, these new entries may appear earlier in the final result set---either on the first few pages or somewhere in the middle---rather than at the end, disrupting the expected pagination order.

>     In our example, increasing size to 4 causes an unexpected result: the new Query 1 result (document ID 14) appears as the fourth document instead of at the end, because of Query 1's higher weight during normalization, as shown in the following diagram.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    In our example, increasing `size` to `4` causes an unexpected result: the new Query 1 result (document ID 14) appears as the fourth document instead of at the end because of Query 1's higher weight during normalization, as shown in the following diagram.
```

    ![more-weightage](/assets/media/blog-images/2025-04-19-navigating-pagination-with-hybrid-query/more-weightage.png){:class="img-centered"}

1. **Duplicate result effect**:
    - Newly retrieved results can become duplicates, meaning they exist in both subquery results.
    - After the score combination process, the combined score of a duplicate entry increases, making it more relevant.

>     - With equal subquery weights, duplicate results rank higher than expected, appearing earlier in search results.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - With equal subquery weights, duplicate results rank higher than expected, appearing higher in search results.
```

>     In the following diagram, documents with IDs 0 and 12 are duplicate results appearing in both match and k-NN subqueries. Because duplicate documents typically receive higher hybrid scores than single-occurrence documents, they appear higher in the results, disrupting the expected pagination order.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    In the following diagram, the documents with the IDs 0 and 12 are duplicate results appearing in both the match and k-NN subqueries. Because duplicate documents typically receive higher hybrid scores than unduplicated documents, they appear higher in the results, disrupting the expected pagination order.
```

    ![duplicate-results](/assets/media/blog-images/2025-04-19-navigating-pagination-with-hybrid-query/duplicate-results.png){:class="img-centered"}

### Addressing the ground truth problem

> The `pagination_depth` parameter solves these issues by ensuring a consistent number of results per shard. This removes the dependency on from and size during result retrieval, ensuring that the same set of search results every time. The `from` and `size` parameters are applied after hybrid techniques to trim the results and determine how many results should be displayed on each page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `pagination_depth` parameter solves these issues by ensuring a consistent number of results per shard. This removes the dependency on `from` and `size` during result retrieval, ensuring that the same set of search results every time. The `from` and `size` parameters are applied after hybrid techniques to trim the results and determine how many results should be displayed on each page.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Line 86: There are words missing from the 2nd sentence.

### Key takeaways

Note the following key takeaways:

> * Keep `pagination_depth` constant while navigating between pages to maintain consistent results.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Keep `pagination_depth` constant while navigating between pages so that you maintain consistent results.
```

* Changing `pagination_depth` during pagination will lead to inconsistent results.

> In our earlier example, setting `pagination_depth = 5` addresses the ground truth issue. Both match query and k-NN query will return up to 5 results from each shard to the coordinator node so it can apply hybrid techniques to the subquery results. The `from` and `size` parameters then determine how to trim the hybrid search results, as shown in the following diagram.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In our earlier example, setting `pagination_depth = 5` addresses the ground truth issue. Both the match and k-NN queries will return up to 5 results from each shard to the coordinator node so that it can apply hybrid techniques to the subquery results. The `from` and `size` parameters then determine how to trim the hybrid search results, as shown in the following diagram.
```

{
  "from": 0,
  "size": 5,
  "query": {
    "hybrid": {
      "pagination_depth": 10,
      "queries": [
        {
          "term": {
            "category": "permission"
          }
        },
        {
          "bool": {
            "should": [
              {
                "term": {
                  "category": "editor"
                }
              },
              {
                "term": {
                  "category": "statement"
                }
              }
            ]
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

For a detailed explanation of this example, see [Paginating hybrid query results](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/vector-search/ai-search/hybrid-search/pagination/).

## Performance impact

We conducted benchmarking to evaluate how different `pagination_depth` values affect CPU utilization and latency. Our tests used the [`noaa_semantic_search`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/tree/main/noaa_semantic_search) dataset from [`opensearch-benchmark-workloads`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads).

### Benchmarking configurations

> We tested six configurations, all returning the second page of results (from = 100, size = 100) with varying pagination_depth values:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We tested 6 configurations, all returning the second page of results (`from = 100`, `size = 100`) with varying `pagination_depth` values:
```

- 50
- 100
- 500
- 1,000
- 5,000
- 10,000

### Query types tested

We evaluated two query types:
1. A hybrid query that contains three subqueries: term, range, and date

> 2. A metric aggregation when applied to a hybrid query that contains three subqueries: term, range, and date

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. A metric aggregation applied to a hybrid query that contains three subqueries: term, range, and date
```

The complete query definitions are available in [`hybrid_search.json`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/blob/main/noaa_semantic_search/operations/hybrid_search.json). Benchmarking was performed using the [`hybrid-query-aggs-light`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/blob/main/noaa_semantic_search/test_procedures/hybrid_search.json#L2) procedure.

### Results

> Our tests used an index containing 134 million documents (four copies of the `noaa_semantic_search` dataset).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Our tests used an index containing 134 million documents (4 copies of the `noaa_semantic_search` dataset).
```

The following graph presents the results of running a hybrid query containing three BM25 subqueries: term, range, and date.

![Performance-graph-of-hybrid-query-with-pagination](/assets/media/blog-images/2025-04-19-navigating-pagination-with-hybrid-query/Performance-graph-of-hybrid-query-with-pagination.png){:class="img-centered" width="500px"}

> The following graph presents the results of running a metric aggregation with a hybrid query containing BM25 three subqueries: term, range, and date.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following graph presents the results of running a metric aggregation with a hybrid query containing three BM25 subqueries: term, range, and date.
```

![metric-aggregation-performance-graph](/assets/media/blog-images/2025-04-19-navigating-pagination-with-hybrid-query/metric-aggregation-performance-graph.png){:class="img-centered" width="500px"}

The following graph presents the CPU utilization results.

![cpu-utilization](/assets/media/blog-images/2025-04-19-navigating-pagination-with-hybrid-query/cpu-utilization.png){:class="img-centered" width="500px"}

### Performance summary

The results show gradual, predictable performance changes:

> - No significant latency or CPU utilization spikes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- There are no significant latency or CPU utilization spikes.
```

- Latency metrics (p50, p90, p99, p100) and CPU utilization increase steadily with increasing pagination depth.

## Best practices for using pagination_depth

Our benchmarking shows no significant performance impact when fetching the second page, even with a `pagination_depth` of 10,000. However, both latency and CPU utilization increase with pagination depth. To optimize performance, consider the following recommendations.

### Optimize pagination depth based on data distribution

The efficiency of pagination depends on how evenly your data is distributed across shards. You can check this distribution using the `_cat/shards` API. If the documents are equally distributed amongst shards, then even a smaller `pagination_depth` can provide more hybridized search results per subquery.

For example:
* With `pagination_depth = 20` across three shards, you can hybridize up to 60 results per subquery.

> * This assumes each shard contains at least 20 results per subquery (thus, the data is evenly distributed).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* This assumes that each shard contains at least 20 results per subquery (thus, the data is evenly distributed).
```

* If there are no duplicate entries between subqueries, you can paginate through up to 120 hybridized search results.

> ### Handle uneven data distribution

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Manage uneven data distribution
```

> Custom routing can lead to uneven data distribution across shards, resulting in:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Custom routing can lead to uneven data distribution across shards, resulting in some shards returning zero results, which reduces the total number of hybridized results.
```

> * Some shards returning zero results, reducing the total number of hybridized results.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> ### Some shards may contain all the relevant results

Reviewer 3: This is not a best practice/recommendation like the preceding two.

Author: @kolchfa-aws @natebower actually this section should be a subsection of the earlier one Manage uneven data distribution. Some shards may contain all the relevant results section contains the explanation what is written in the earlier section with the example.

Reviewer 2: OK then, I'll just remove the heading and make it a paragraph in that section.

> If a shard contains more than 20 results per subquery, it can still return only 20 results (based on `pagination_depth`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If a shard contains more than 20 results per subquery, it can still return only 20 results (based on `pagination_depth`). As a result, the coordinator node will receive fewer results for hybridization, reducing the final search result size.
```

> As a result, the coordinator node will receive fewer results for hybridization, reducing the final search result size.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> ### Recommendations

Reviewer 3: The organization here is a little confusing. Aren't we already providing recommendations in the preceding sections? I would either present these in the same format as the others or combine everything into one section.

Author: Here actually I want to give a one liner of what I have written in the earlier section. Maybe you can give advice on how to do that. 

@kolchfa-aws do you have some opinion here>

Reviewer 2: Let me try and tweak the intro sentence to reflect that.

> Follow these best practices to optimize hybrid search for efficiency, ensuring high relevance while maintaining performance:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Follow these recommendations to optimize hybrid search for efficiency, ensuring high relevance while maintaining performance:
```

* **Avoid deep pagination**: Hybrid search is optimized for relevance, not exhaustive pagination. For deep pagination needs, consider using traditional search methods like `bool` or `match` queries.

> * **Distribute data evenly**: Balance shards during indexing for better query efficiency and to minimize the need for high `pagination_depth` values.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Distribute data evenly**: Balance shards during indexing to ensure better query efficiency and minimize the need for high `pagination_depth` values.
```

## Limitations

You may see this error while navigating between pages: "Reached end of search results. Increase pagination_depth value to see more results."

As noted in [Key takeaways](#key-takeaways), maintaining a consistent `pagination_depth` ensures stable results but limits you to a fixed result set. When you reach the last available page for your specified `pagination_depth`, OpenSearch will return an error indicating that the end of the search results has been reached. At this point, you have exhausted the search results for the given `pagination_depth`. To retrieve additional results beyond this limit, you must increase the `pagination_depth`, effectively expanding the search reference by including more results in the final result set.

## Wrapping up

> In this blog post, we've explored how `pagination_depth` resolves the ground truth issues that occur when using `from` and `size` parameters alone for pagination. We also examined how `pagination_depth` impacts the performance of retrieving the top pages of the final search result. As discussed, applying pagination to retrieve a higher number of pages can degrade search performance, as it increases both computation time and cost. To help you optimize performance, we've provided best practices for using `pagination_depth` with hybrid search. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this blog post, we explored how `pagination_depth` resolves the ground truth issues that occur when using only the `from` and `size` parameters for pagination. We also examined how `pagination_depth` affects performance when retrieving the top pages of the final search result. As discussed, applying pagination to retrieve a higher number of pages can degrade search performance because it increases both computation time and costs. To help you optimize performance, we've provided best practices for using `pagination_depth` with hybrid search. 
```

Custom routing can lead to uneven data distribution across shards, resulting in some shards returning zero results, which reduces the total number of hybridized results.

> Additionally, some shards may contain all the relevant results. If a shard contains more than 20 results per subquery, it can still return only 20 results (based on `pagination_depth`). As a result, the coordinator node will receive fewer results for hybridization, reducing the final search result size.

Author: In continuation with the earlier example, if some shards may contain all the relevant results due to custom routing. If a shard contains more than 20 results per subquery, it can still return only 20 results (based on pagination_depth). As a result, the coordinator node will receive fewer results for hybridization, reducing the final search result size.
